? 3. The appeals arise from the common judgment of a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Writ Petition No. 2646 of 1990 and batch. ? 214 examinees who were otherwise to fail would pass, and the remaining 69 examinees have improved their ranking, which would be in some cases exceptionally good. ? Several writ petitions were filed in the High Court against non-declaration of the results and the High Court directed to take expeditious action to declare the results of the examination within the specified time. ? The finding that tampering was done at the instance of the examinees/parents/guardians is perverse. ? The impugned notification dated August 31, 1990 was quashed. ? 6. The first question is whether the Standing Committee of the concerned Divisional Board has power under the Act and Regulations to enquire into the use of unfair means committed at the final examination conducted under the Act. ? When the Divisional Board is conducting the examinations and dealing with the use of unfair means at the final examination, it is acting on behalf of the State Board as its agent. ? When the Education Standing Committee takes the decision its decision is on behalf of the Divisional Board to which they are members and the decision of the Divisional Board in turn is on behalf of the State Board. ? The government retired the respondent compulsorily which was challenged in a writ petition. ? A Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court held that the District Judge cannot be retired from service on the opinion formed by the Administrative Committee and all the Judges should have considered and made recommendation. ? The order was set aside. ? On appeal, the Constitution Bench of this Court held that Article 235 of the Constitution provides control over the District Judges and the court subordinate thereto shall be vested in the High Court. ? The High Court regulated the manner of appointment of a Committee to screen the service record. ? The rules framed prescribed the manner in which the power has to be exercised. ? The High Court held that the Samiti was vested with power to grant licence to hold the fair under Section 117 of West Bengal Panchayat Act, 1973. ? The resolution of the Samiti was upheld. ? It was quashed. ? The facts were that while the appellant was working as the District and Sessions Judge, the State Government moved the High Court for his premature retirement. ? The Board must be deemed to have passed the impugned notification as per the scheme of the provisions of the Act and the Regulations. ? The finding of the learned Judge Sugla, J. that the Standing Committee had no power to take the impugned decision, etc. without approval of the Divisional Board is clearly illegal and cannot be sustained. ? The question emerges whether the conclusion reached by the Standing Committee that the fabrication was done at the behest of either the candidate or the parents or the guardians to their advantage is based on records. ? We remind ourselves that while exercising the powers, under Article 226 or Article 136 of the Constitution, by the High Court or of this Court, we are not sitting as a court of appeal on the findings of facts recorded by the Standing Committee (domestic enquiry body), nor have power to evaluate the evidence as an appellate court and to come to its own conclusions. ? If the conclusions reached by the Board can be fairly supported by the evidence on record then the High Court or this Court has to uphold the decision, though as appellate court of facts, may be inclined to take a different view. ? No evidence was placed on record, nor was it proved; that the findings of the Standing Committee are clearly based on no evidence. ? The learned Judges of the High Court were justified in reaching the conclusion that the Board had not established that the fabrication was done at the behest of the examinees/parents/guardians. ? The inference from these facts drawn by the Standing Committee that the examinees/parents/guardians were responsible to fabricate the moderators' mark sheets is based on evidence. ? Thereby the High Court has committed manifest error of law warranting interference by this Court. ? Education should be co-related to the social, political or economic needs of our developing nation fostering secular values breaking the barriers of casteism, linguism, religious bigotry and it should act as an instrument of social change. ? What the writ court needs to do is to find whether fair and reasonable opportunity has been given to the students in the given facts. ? The omission to provide the assistance of a counsel at the inquiry is not violative of the principles of natural justice. ? The Enquiry Reports are not bad in law. ? It also aids the appellate or revisional authority or the supervisory jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 or the appellate jurisdiction of this Court under Article 136 to see whether the authority concerned acted fairly and justly to mete out justice to the aggrieved person. ? There is no need to examine the concerned officials in the State Board to explain as to how and who dealt with the papers from the time recounting was done in the office till the moderators' mark sheets were sent to Pune to feed the computer. ? For the reasons given earlier, the argument stands rejected. ? The impugned notification is not vitiated by violation of the rules of natural justice. ? 25. The crucial question is whether the conclusions reached by the authorities that the examinees, their parents or guardians were parties to the fabrication and whether their complicity was established from record and whether the evidence was sufficient to support such conclusion reached by the Standing Committee or the Enquiry Officer. ? The High Court held that the findings of the Committee were based on no evidence and quashed the cancellation of the results. ? It was held that it would amount to the adoption of unfair means. ? The High Court committed error in assuming that there is no evidence in proof of it. ? It was held that the appeal was allowed and the order of the High Court was set aside and that of the domestic tribunal was confirmed. ? The ratio therein is inapplicable to a proceeding either in the civil case or in an enquiry before a domestic tribunal. ? The reviewing court will require to be satisfied that the facts which are required for the justification of the restraint put on liberty do exist. ? The flexibility of the civil standard of proof suffices to ensure that the court will require the high degree of probability which is appropriate to what is at stake. ? The civil standard of flexibility be applied to deal with immigration cases. ? It was held that the student did not deny commission of the offence it was held that the student suffered no injustice by reason of the breach of the rules. ? The Court noted that the Chief Minister was not prepared, as suggested by the Division Bench, to face an inquiry and that substituted to the findings of the Division Bench, in the penultimate paragraph of the judgment that the court would be cognizant of the steep decline of public standards, public moral and public morale which have been contaminating the social environment and emphasised that (SCC p. 253, para 51) "where such situations cry out the courts should not and cannot remain mute and dumb" and it is necessary to cleanse public life. ? When an inference of proof that a fact in dispute has been held established there must be some material facts or circumstances on record from which such an inference could be drawn. Go to ? It is clear that the conclusion reached by the Education Standing Committee that the fabrication was done at the instance of either the examinees or their parents or guardians is amply borne out from the record. ? The Court under Article 136 has to correct the illegalities committed by the High Court when it exceeded its supervisory jurisdiction under Article 226. ? 43. The appeals are allowed but in the circumstances parties are directed to bear their own costs.