3. the order was assailed by the State by filing Revision Petition before the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Shimla, who vide judgment dated 3.3.2016 held that the offence under Section 498-A IPC was a continuing one and the Courts at Shimla had the jurisdiction. ? "Section 177: ORDINARY PLACE OF INQUIRY AND TRIAL: Every offence shall ordinarily be inquired into and tried by a Court within whose local jurisdiction it was committed." ? 14. While in civil cases, normally the expression "cause of action" is used, in criminal cases as stated in Section 177 of the Code, reference is to the local jurisdiction where the offence is committed. ? 15. It is settled law that cause of action consists of bundle of facts, which give cause to enforce the legal inquiry for redress in a court of law. ? "Cause of action" has been defined as meaning simply a factual situation the existence of which entitles one person to obtain from the Court a remedy against another person. ? 20. When the aforesaid legal principles are applied, to the factual scenario disclosed by the complainant in the complaint petition, the inevitable conclusion is that no part of cause of action arose in Chennai and the concerned magistrate had no jurisdiction to deal with the matter. ? The appeal is allowed. ? Going by the complaint, we are of the view that it cannot be held that the Court at Ambikapur has jurisdiction to try the offence since the appropriate Court at Delhi would have jurisdiction to try the said offence. ? 8. Chapter-XIII of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short Code) relates to jurisdiction of Criminal Courts in inquiries and trials. ? 9. It is apparent from a bare perusal of the aforesaid Section that every offence is required to be ordinarily enquired into and tried by a Court within whose jurisdiction it was committed. ? The mere fact that warrants of search had been issued by the Court at Kangra would not clothe the Court at Kangra with jurisdiction to entertain the complaint as this would apparently be in violation and conflict with Section 177 of the Code. ? Blackstone opines that crime is local and jurisdiction over it vests in the Court and Country where the crime is committed. ? While the convenience of the Defendant in a civil action may be relevant, the convenience of the so called complainant/victim has little or no role to play in criminal prosecution. ? We reiterate that Section 178 admits of no debate that in criminal prosecution, the concept of cause of action, being the bundle of facts required to be proved in a suit and also being relevant for the place of suing, is not pertinent or germane for determining territorial jurisdiction of criminal Trials. ? The learned Magistrate at Kangra had no jurisdiction to entertain much less issuing process in the complaint instituted by the respondent No.2. ? From the allegations in the complaint, it appears to us that it is a continuing offence of illtreatment and humiliation meted out to the appellant in the hands of all the accused persons and in such continuing offence, on some occasion all had taken part and on other occasion one of the accused, namely, husband had taken part undoubtedly clause (c) of Section 178 of the Code is clearly attracted. ? 4. In State of Punjab vs. Dharam Vir Singh Jethi 1994 SCC (Cri.) 500, the Honble Supreme Court held that when the chargesheet was submitted, quashing of FIR is not permissible since it would be open to the Court to refuse to frame charge. ? We are afraid that the High Court was not right in quashing the First Information Report on the plea that the said respondent had no role to play and was never the custodian of the paddy in question. ? Section 173(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure was filed in the court. ? 5. In Vineet Narain and others vs. Union of India and another (1996) 2 SCC 199, the Supreme Court after refusing to quash the FIR, held that when a chargesheet was filed in the competent Court, it is that Court alone which will then deal with the case on merits, in accordance with law. ? The legislature in its wisdom under the provisions of the Code has given limited/restrictive power to the Court to intervene at the stage of investigation by the police. ? No doubt, the appellants have got every right to approach this Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C and need not wait for the trial, provided that there is no material to believe, hold or infer that they have not prima facie committed any offence. ? 20. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I find no merit in this petition and the same is dismissed. ? The interim order passed by this Court on 12.4.2016 is ordered to be vacated.