? The suit was dismissed by a judgment dated 18-1-1982 by the learned Single Judge of the High Court of Delhi. ? Against the concurrent findings of both the judgments, the appellants filed Special Leave Petition No. 3740 of 2001 in this Court which was also dismissed on 16-3-2001. ? 8. The defendants in the suit contended that inasmuch as Regular First Appeal (Original Side) No. 4 of 1982 was still pending Ram Parshad's suit be stayed under Section 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure. ? The suit filed by Ram Parshad for mandatory injunction and for mesne profits stood revived on 5-12-2001. ? Against the order, Civil Miscellaneous (Main) No. 1153 of 2004 was filed in the High Court which was disposed of on 2-9-2004 with liberty to move an application before the trial court for framing an additional issue. ? Order 20 Rule 5 clearly states that the court has to return finding on each issue. ? Sub-rule (2) refers to the discretion given to the court where the court may try an issue relating to the jurisdiction of the court or the bar to the suit created by any law for the time being in force as preliminary issue. ? 16. Aggrieved by the order dated 23-10-2009, the defendants (the appellants herein) preferred Civil Revision Petition No. 76 of 2010 in the High Court of Delhi. ? At the preliminary hearing, the petition was allowed to be withdrawn, leaving the trial court at liberty to consider the request of the appellants to treat Issue 4 regarding court fee as a preliminary issue. ? The matter is at the stage of final arguments before the trial court. ? Applications after applications are being filed by the appellants at every stage, even though orders of the trial court are based on sound reasoning. ? The appellants tried to mislead the court by mentioning wrong date of 22-9-2003 as the date of filing. ? 21. The High Court has also dealt with a number of judgments dealing with the power of the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution. ? On pleadings, Issue 4 was framed with regard to court fee and jurisdiction. ? When the suit was fixed before the trial court for final arguments, the application in question was filed. ? Court to pronounce judgment on all issues.-(1) Notwithstanding that a case may be disposed of on a preliminary issue, the court shall, subject to the provisions of sub-rule (2), pronounce judgment on all issues." ? Neither does it relate to the bar created by any law nor the jurisdiction of the court to entertain the suit. ? It is well settled that frivolous litigation clogs the wheels of justice making it difficult for courts to provide easy and speedy justice to the genuine litigations. ? 27. We have carefully examined the impugned judgment of the High Court and also the order dated 9-7-2010 passed by the learned Civil Judge, Delhi. ? In order to properly comprehend the functioning of the trial courts, while dealing with civil cases, we deem it appropriate to reproduce the order-sheets of the 1992 suit. ? 16-4-2002-As the value of the suit is below Rs 3 lakhs, the suit is transferred to the Court of the Civil Judge. ? 33. According to Dr. Mohan, in our legal system, uncalled for litigation gets encouragement because our courts do not impose realistic costs. ? Our courts are flooded with these cases because there is an inherent profit for the wrongdoers in our system. ? Pragmatic approach of the courts would partly solve the housing problem of this country. ? 42. In the instant case when the entire question of title has been determined by the High Court and the special leave petition against that judgment has been dismissed by this Court, thereafter the trial court ought not to have framed such an issue on a point which has been finally determined up to this Court. ? In order to curb uncalled for and frivolous litigation, the courts have to ensure that there is no incentive or motive for uncalled for litigation. ? It is a matter of common experience that court's otherwise scarce and valuable time is consumed or more appropriately, wasted in a large number of uncalled for cases. ? The better course for the court is to give a short notice and in some cases even dasti notice, hear both the parties and then pass suitable bipartite orders. ? As a rule, the court should grant interim injunction or stay order only after hearing the defendants or the respondents and in case the court has to grant ex parte injunction in exceptional cases then while granting injunction it must record in the order that if the suit is eventually dismissed, the plaintiff or the petitioner will have to pay full restitution, actual or realistic costs and mesne profits. ? In Swaran Singh v. State of Punjab 2000 5 SCC 668 this Court was constrained to observe that perjury has become a way of life in our courts. ? The courts may consider ordering prosecution otherwise it may not be possible to maintain purity and sanctity of judicial proceedings. ? The court must adopt realistic and pragmatic approach in granting mesne profits. ? The court must carefully keep in view the ground realities while granting mesne profits. ? 53. According to us, these aforementioned steps may help the courts to drastically improve the existing system of administration of civil litigation in our courts. ? 55. The other factor which should not be forgotten while imposing costs is for how long the defendants or respondents were compelled to contest and defend the litigation in various courts. Go to ? The appellants in the instant case have harassed the respondents to the hilt for four decades in a totally frivolous and dishonest litigation in various courts. ? The appeals are dismissed with costs, which we quantify as Rs 2,00,000 (Rupees two lakhs only). ? 57. The suit pending before the trial court is at the final stage of the arguments the said suit is directed to be disposed of as expeditiously as possible and in any event within three months from the date of the communication of the order as we have not decided the matter on merits of the case. ? 59. the appeals are disposed of in terms of the aforementioned directions.