? By the impugned order the High Court has set aside the judgment and decree of the courts below as a result of which the suit filed by the plaintiff-appellant (hereinafter referred to as "the appellant") has been ordered to be dismissed.
? That the appellant was not entitled to the suit property and was estopped from denying the title of the temple.
? 7. The trial court relying upon the oral as well as documentary evidence held that the appellant was the owner of the property and that Respondent 2 was the tenant of the appellant.
? The High Court reversed the judgment and decree of the courts below and held that no reliance could be placed upon the documentary evidence.
? 10. All the three questions framed proceed on the assumption as if the property belongs to the temple whereas the findings of the courts below were to the contrary.
? Instead of proceeding to decide the issues arising in the suit the High Court assumed the second appellate jurisdiction by erroneously assuming the fact that the property belongs to the temple while framing the substantial questions of law.
? As to whether the appellant or the temple had the title to the property in suit was the question to be determined in the case and the High Court erred in assuming and proceeding on an assumption that the property belonged to the temple.
? The questions framed by the High Court did not arise as substantial questions of law based on the findings recorded by the courts below - concurrently in this case.
? The courts of fact, subordinate to the High Court, have not felt the need of any further corroboration before acting upon the entries in the ledger books made by the deceased father of the appellant.
? The appellant has been believed by the trial court and the first appellate court and his statement has been found to be enough corroboration of the entries made by him.
? Again no such question of law arose as would enable the High Court to reverse that finding.
? 13. We are definitely of the opinion that the High Court has erred in ruling out the books from consideration on the ground that the same were not duly maintained or were not proved in the absence of the maker having stepped in the witness box.
? The plaintiff has in his statement deposed and made it clear that the certified copy, though available, was placed on the record of another legal proceedings and in the present proceedings he was tendering the photocopy.
? It was read by the trial court as also by the first appellate court.
? Nothing turns on the observation of the High Court that the document was not readable when the matter came up for hearing before it.
? In the absence of any other lawful claimant the appellant on the strength of the documents produced by him was rightly held to be the owner by the courts below the High Court.
? The law has been correctly stated and the High Court rightly felt bound to follow the law as laid down by this Court.
? (Best, ? 95) While civil cases may be proved by a mere preponderance of evidence, in criminal cases the prosecution must prove the charge beyond reasonable doubt."
? 29. In a suit for recovery of possession based on title it is for the plaintiff to prove his title and satisfy the court that he, in law, is entitled to dispossess the defendant from his possession over the suit property and for the possession to be restored to him.
? 30. In the present case, the trial court and the first appellate court have noted that the plaintiff has not been able to produce any deed of title directly lending support to his claim for title and at the same time the defendant too has no proof of his title much less even an insignia of title.
? In the opinion of the two courts below, the plaintiff had succeeded in shifting the onus on the defendant and the burden of proof which lay on the plaintiff had stood discharged.
? The High Court has interfered with a pure and simple finding of fact based on appreciation of oral and documentary evidence which the High Court ought not to have done.
? The High Court was bound by the findings of fact arrived at by the two courts below and should not have entered into the exercise of reappreciating and evaluating the evidence.
? The judgment of the High Court cannot be sustained and has to be set aside.
? Judgment and decree of the High Court is set aside and that of the trial court as confirmed by the first appellate court is restored.

