? Aggrieved against the appeal being allowed and the suit being dismissed, the respondent Society preferred a second appeal in SA No. 869 of 2009 before the High Court of Madras. ? 6. The learned Judge of the Madras High Court heard both the aforesaid second appeals together and by a common judgment set aside the well-considered judgments of the first appellate court. ? 10. The trial court in Suit No. 1143 of 1994 has held that the appellant was in possession of the suit property in the capacity of a watchman. ? The issue is decided ." ? 12. The trial court relied on a judgment of the Madras High Court in Alagi Alamelu Achi v. Ponniah Mudaliar AIR 1962 Mad 149. ? 13. The trial court also came to a definite conclusion that the appellant has concealed certain vital facts and has not approached the court with clean hands and he is not entitled to the grant of discretionary relief of injunction. ? 14. The first appellate court reversed the judgment of the trial court and held that the appellant was entitled to the relief of injunction because of his long possession of the suit property. ? The first appellate court also set aside the decree passed by the trial court in OS No. 239 of 2003. ? The High Court heard both the appeals filed by the respondent Society and the same were allowed by a common judgment dated 20-4-2011. ? 16. The High Court by a detailed reasoning set aside the judgment of the first appellate court and held that the first appellate court was not justified in reversing the judgments passed by the trial court in both the abovementioned suits, OS No. 1143 of 1994 and OS No. 239 of 2003. ? 18. In our considered view, a well-reasoned judgment and a decree passed by the trial court ought not to have been reversed by the first appellate court. ? Possession is important when there are no title documents and other relevant records before the court, but, once the documents and records of title come before the court, it is the title which has to be looked at first and due weightage be given to it. ? If the pleadings do not give sufficient details, they will not raise an issue, and the court can reject the claim or pass a decree on admission. ? The court must ensure that pleadings of a case must contain sufficient particulars. ? Truth constituted an integral part of the justice delivery system which was in vogue in the pre-Independence era and the people used to feel proud to tell the truth in the courts irrespective of the consequences. ? It is a well-accepted and settled principle that a court must discharge its statutory functions-whether discretionary or obligatory-according to law in dispensing justice because it is the duty of a court not only to do justice but also to ensure that justice is being done. ? Right from inception of the judicial system it has been accepted that discovery, vindication and establishment of truth are the main purposes underlying the existence of the courts of justice. ? Concern for and duty to seek truth should not become the limited concern of the courts. ? People would have faith in courts when they would find that truth alone triumphs in the courts. ? In United States v. Havens 64 L Ed 2d 559 it was held that the Government may use illegally obtained evidence to impeach a defendant's fraudulent statements during cross-examination for the purpose of seeking justice, for the purpose of 'arriving at the truth, which is a fundamental goal of our legal system'. ? If false averments, evasive denials or false denials are introduced, then the court must carefully look into it while deciding a case and insist that those who approach the court must approach it with clean hands. ? While passing the order, the court must take into consideration the pragmatic realities and pass proper order for mesne profits. ? It is imperative for the court to carefully analyse the pleadings and the documents on record and only on that basis the court must be governed by the prima facie case. ? The courts may consider ordering prosecution otherwise it may not be possible to maintain purity and sanctity of judicial proceedings. ? The interests of justice require that any undeserved or unfair advantage gained by a party invoking the jurisdiction of the court, by the mere circumstance that it has initiated a proceeding in the court, must be neutralised. ? The Court in Grindlays Bank Ltd. v. ITO held that the High Court while exercising its power under Article 226 the interest of justice requires that any undeserved or unfair advantage gained by a party invoking the jurisdiction of the court must be neutralised. ? In Padmawati v. Harijan Sewak Sangh 2008 154 DLT 411 decided by the Delhi High Court on 6-11-2008, the Court held as under: (DLT p. 413, para 6) '6. ? One of the aims of every judicial system has to be to discourage unjust enrichment using courts as a tool. ? We approve the findings of the High Court of Delhi in the aforementioned case. ? The High Court also stated: (Padmawati case, DLT pp. 414-15, para 9) '9. ? It becomes the duty of the courts to see that such wrongdoers are discouraged at every step and even if they succeed in prolonging the litigation due to their money power, ultimately they must suffer the costs of all these years' long litigation. ? Against this judgment of the Delhi High Court, Special Leave to Appeal (Civil) No. 29197 of 2008 was preferred to this Court. ? The special leave petition is dismissed.' ? [the] stay granted by the court does not confer a right upon a party and it is granted always subject to the final result of the matter in the court and at the risks and costs of the party obtaining the stay. ? The Court in para 28 of the aforesaid judgment very carefully mentioned that the litigation should not turn into a fruitful industry and observed as under: (South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. case, SCC pp. 664-65) '28. ... ? We are of the opinion that the successful party finally held entitled to a relief assessable in terms of money at the end of the litigation, is entitled to be compensated by award of interest at a suitable reasonable rate for the period for which the interim order of the court withholding the release of money had remained in operation.' ? The Court in the aforesaid judgment also observed that once the doctrine of restitution is attracted, the interest is often a normal relief given in restitution. ? No litigant can derive any benefit from mere pendency of case in a court of law, as the interim order always merges in the final order to be passed in the case and if the writ petition is ultimately dismissed, the interim order stands nullified automatically. ? The maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit, which means that the act of the court shall prejudice no one, becomes applicable in such a case. ? In such a fact situation the court is under an obligation to undo the wrong done to a party by the act of the court. ? Any undeserved or unfair advantage gained by a party invoking the jurisdiction of the court must be neutralised, as the institution of litigation cannot be permitted to confer any advantage on a suitor from delayed action by the act of the court.' ? The court should never permit a litigant to perpetuate illegality by abusing the legal process. ? It is the bounden duty of the court to ensure that dishonesty and any attempt to abuse the legal process must be effectively curbed and the court must ensure that there is no wrongful, unauthorised or unjust gain for anyone by the abuse of the process of the court. ? The courts would be fully justified even imposing punitive costs where legal process has been abused. ? The court while rendering justice must adopt a pragmatic approach and in appropriate cases realistic costs and compensation be ordered in order to discourage dishonest litigation. ? The other factor which should not be forgotten while imposing costs is for how long the defendants or respondents were compelled to contest and defend the litigation in various courts. ? The appellants in the instant case have harassed the respondents to the hilt for four decades in a totally frivolous and dishonest litigation in various courts. ? It may take quite some time, at times years, before the court is able to see through, discern and reach to the truth. ? 43.1 It is the bounden duty of the court to uphold the truth and do justice. ? 43.2 Every litigant is expected to state truth before the law court whether it is pleadings, affidavits or evidence. ? Dishonest and unscrupulous litigants have no place in law courts. ? 45. Both the appeals are dismissed, leaving the parties to bear their own costs.