? 1. The Trial Court has passed a decree for possession of property bearing No. R-719, New Rajinder Nagar, New Delhi (hereinafter referred to as the "suit property"), against the appellant under Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure which is under challenge in this appeal. ? The respondent further notified the appellant to hand over the vacant and peaceful possession of the suit property on or before 15 July, 2009. ? 6. On 22 September, 2009, the respondent instituted a suit for recovery of possession and mesne profits against the appellant in respect of the suit property before the Trial Court. ? The appellant also challenged the title of the respondent and pleaded that the respondent was neither the co-owner nor had any right, title or interest in the suit property. ? 7. On 3rd May, 2010, the respondent filed an application under Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure before the Trial Court seeking a decree on admissions. ? The learned Trial Court allowed the aforesaid application and passed the decree for possession which is under challenge in this appeal. ? The appellant has disputed the title of the respondent and has urged that the dispute between the respondent and the other co-owners of the suit is pending before the Court. ? It is submitted that there is a legal presumption of service under Section 27 of the General Clauses Act, 1892 and Section 114(f) of the India Evidence Act, 1872, and the denial of notice by the appellant is of no avail. ? A 'tenant at sufferance' is one who wrongfully continues in possession after the extinction of his lawful term and has been described as the least and lowest interest which can subsist in realty and is merely a legal fiction or device to avoid continuance in possession from operating as a trespass. ? The tenant at sufferance is one who wrongfully continues in possession after the extinction of a lawful title. ? It cannot be created by contract and arises only by implication of law when a person who has been in possession under a lawful title continues in possession after that title has been determined, without the consent of the person entitled. ? We are of the opinion that mere acceptance of rent by the landlord, the first respondent herein, from the tenant in possession after the lease has been determined either by efflux of time or by notice to quit would not create a tenancy so as to confer on the erstwhile tenant the status of a tenant or a right to be in possession..." ? Section 27 of the General Clauses Act incorporates a presumption of law. ? It provides that in considering whether common course of business had been followed or not, the Court shall also have regard to such facts as are set out in relation to each of the illustrations. ? 29. In Tukaram Ganpat Pandare v. State of Maharashtra, (1974) 4 SCC 544, the Supreme Court held that Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act enables the Court to use common sense as a judicial tool to do justice. ? It is said that the function of a presumption often is to "fill a gap" in evidence. ? 31. In Har Charan Singh v. Shiv Rani, AIR 1981 SC 1284, the Supreme Court held that a presumption of service can be drawn under Section 27 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 and Section 114(f) of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. ? It would be reasonable to hold that when service is effected by refusal of a postal communication the addressee must be imputed, with the knowledge of the contents thereof and in our view, this follows upon the presumptions that are raised under Section 27 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 and Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act." ? 32. In Madan and Co. v. Wazir Jaivir Chand, AIR 1989 SC 630, the Supreme Court held that a notice sent by registered post is presumed to have been delivered to the addressee under Section 27 of the General Clauses Act. ? Section 114 enables the Court to presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have happened, regard being had to the common course of natural events, human conduct and public and private business in their relation to the facts of the particular case. ? We have no hesitation to hold that no notice to quit was necessary under Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act in order to enable the respondent to get a decree of eviction against the appellant." ? In view of the decision in the case of Nopany (supra) I hold that even assuming the notice terminating tenancy was not served upon the Appellant (though it has been served and as held by me above) the tenancy would stand terminated on filing of the subject suit against the appellant/defendant. ? In my opinion the argument that the tenancy has not been validly terminated, and the suit could not have been filed, fails for this reason also. ? The intention of Legislature is clear that technical objections should not be permitted to defeat substantial justice and the suit for possession of tenanted premises once the tenant has a period of 15 days for vacating the tenanted premises. ? Even if we take this date when the appellant/tenant received a copy of the notice when served with the documents in the suit, once again, the period of 15 days has expired thereafter and keeping the legislative intendment of amended Section 106 in view, the appellant cannot argue that the tenancy is not terminated and he did not get a period of 15 days to vacate the premises. ? I am in view of this position entitled to take notice of subsequent events under Order 7 Rule 7 CPC, and taking notice of the subsequent events of the expiry of 15 days after receipt of a copy of the notice alongwith documents in the suit, I hold that the tenancy has been validly terminated, and as on date, the appellant/tenant has no right to stay in the premises and the decree for possession was rightly passed by the trial Court. ? 39. In Rabinder Nath Saha v. Sushma Jain, 182 (2011) DLT 456, this Court following the decision in Jeevan Diesel (supra) noted that the SLP against the judgment of Jeevan Diesel (supra) was dismissed by the Supreme Court on 7 July, 2011. ? "The only dispute which the appellant has been raising in the appeal is that he has never admitted in the written statement with respect to service of notice upon him under Section 106, T.P Act and the order of the learned Trial Court thereby presuming the service upon the appellant is bad in law. ? The Court is of the considered opinion that law as relied upon by the learned Trial Court with respect to presuming the service upon the appellant, does not suffer from any legal infirmity or illegality." ? The Court is required to consider that if a suit for possession is filed without serving a notice under Section 106 of the Act, can such a suit be decreed. ? The language of Section 106 of the Act before its amendment provided a fertile ground for the litigants and lawyers to contest suits on this technical ground that the tenancy was not validly terminated by means of a notice expiring with the end of tenancy month. ? Every tenant by virtue of amended Section 106 of the Act is put to notice that in case the landlord is legally entitled to ask the tenant to vacate the premises, the tenant shall vacate the premises as long as the tenant has a 15 days notice period to vacate the tenanted premises. ? The technical rule has been whittled down by a catena of judgments of the Supreme Court whereby the Supreme Court has said that Courts are always empowered to take notice of subsequent events under Order 7 Rule 7 CPC to shorten the litigation. ? The Supreme Court has repeatedly held that the object of taking notice of subsequent events is to shorten the litigation and to do substantive justice. ? This principle of taking notice of subsequent events is a well settled principle and I need not burden this judgment with the innumerable judgments of the Supreme Court on this aspect. ? Even if the notice by which tenancy is terminated prior to the filing of the suit is held to be invalid, then, in my opinion, service of summons of the suit for eviction of the tenant showing the categorical intention of the landlord asking the tenant to vacate the tenanted premises can be taken as a notice under Section 106 of the Act read with Order 7 Rule 7 CPC. ? 43. In Shri Ram Pasricha v. Jagannath, AIR 1976 SC 2335, the Supreme Court held that in a suit for eviction, the tenant is estopped from questioning the title of landlord. ? It is inconceivable to throw out the suit on account of non-pleading of other co-owners as such." ? Once a lease stands forfeited by operation of law, the person in occupation of the premises cannot take benefit of the legal tenancy. ? 52. In Maria Margarida Sequeria Fernandes v. Erasmo Jack de Sequeria, 2012 (3) SCALE 550, the Supreme Court held that the person resisting a claim for recovery of possession or claiming a right to continue in possession has to establish that he has such a right. ? The factors which deserve to be taken into consideration in order to enable the Court to pass a decree in plaintiff's favor as regards possession in such like suit. ? In case the lessee claims a right of renewal under a clause he must bring a separate suit for specific performance of the renewal clause within the limitation prescribed for such a suit. ... ? 55. In Jindal Dyechem Industries Pvt. Ltd. v. Pahwa International Pvt. Ltd., 2009 (113) DRJ 214, this Court held that a notice dispatched to the defendant by registered post is presumed to be served under Section 27 of the General Clauses Act and a denial of the said notice by the defendant has no value. ? The Court passed a decree for possession under Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure. ? The Court held the material to be sufficient to draw a presumption of proper service under Section 27 of the General Clauses Act, 1897. ? The materials are sufficient for the Court to draw an inference of proper service, based on Section 27 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, and the judgment of the Supreme Court, in K. Bhaskaran v. Sankaran Vaidhyan Balan, 1999 (7) SCC 510..." ? The denial of service of notice shall be treated as a vague denial and deemed to have been admitted." ? The thrust of amendment is that in an appropriate case a party on the admission of the other party can press for judgment as a matter of legal right. ? 58. In Maria Margarida Sequeria Fernandes v. Erasmo Jack de Sequeria, (supra), the Supreme Court held that false claims and defences are serious problems with real estate litigation, predominantly because of ever escalating prices of the real estate. ? 84. False claims and defences are really serious problems with real estate litigation, predominantly because of ever escalating prices of the real estate. ? Litigation pertaining to valuable real estate properties is dragged on by unscrupulous litigants in the hope that the other party will tire out and ultimately would settle with them by paying a huge amount. ? 59. In Dalip Singh v. State of U.P, (2010) 2 SCC 114, the Supreme Court observed that a new creed of litigants have cropped up in the last 40 years who do not have any respect for truth and shamelessly resort to falsehood and unethical means for achieving their goals. ? 62. In Mohammad Ahmad v. Atma Ram Chauhan, (2011) 7 SCC 755, the Supreme Court observed that the motivation of the tenant to litigate with the landlord is that he doesn't want to pay the prevalent market rate of rent to the landlord and continues to pay the rent fixed years ago. ? 63. In Maria Margarida Sequeria Fernandes v. Erasmo Jack de Sequeria (supra), the Supreme Court held that inherent interest to continue frivolous litigation by unscrupulous litigants would be reduced to a large extent, if continuation of possession is permitted upon payment of market rent. ? In case while granting or refusing injunction, the Court properly considers pleadings and documents and takes the pragmatic view and grants appropriate mesne profit, then the inherent interest to continue frivolous litigation by unscrupulous litigants would be reduced to a large extent. ? The findings of the Supreme Court are as under:- ? It is the bounden duty of the court to ensure that dishonesty and any attempt to abuse the legal process must be effectively curbed and the court must ensure that there is no wrongful, unauthorised or unjust gain for anyone by the abuse of the process of the court. ? The court while rendering justice must adopt a pragmatic approach and in appropriate cases realistic costs and compensation be ordered in order to discourage dishonest litigation. ? (7) Litigation should not be permitted to turn into a fruitful industry so that the unscrupulous litigants are encouraged to invoke the jurisdiction of the court. ? The Court in the case of Ramrameshwari Devi v. Nirmala Devi, (2011) 8 SCC 249 (of which one of us, Bhandari, J. was the author of the judgment) in paragraph 52(C, D and G) of the judgment dealt with the aspect of imposition of actual or realistic costs which are equally relevant for this case..." ? 67. In Ramrameshwari Devi v. Nirmala Devi, (2011) 8 SCC 249, the Supreme Court has held that the Courts have to take into consideration pragmatic realities and have to be realistic in imposing the costs. ? "45. ........We are clearly of the view that unless we ensure that wrongdoers are denied profit or undue benefit from the frivolous litigation, it would be difficult to control frivolous and uncalled for litigations. ? In order to curb uncalled for and frivolous litigation, the courts have to ensure that there is no incentive or motive for uncalled for litigation. ? The courts may consider ordering prosecution otherwise it may not be possible to maintain purity and sanctity of judicial proceedings. ? 55. The other factor which should not be forgotten while imposing costs is for how long the Defendants or Respondents were compelled to contest and defend the litigation in various courts. ? The Appellants in the instant case have harassed the Respondents to the hilt for four decades in a totally frivolous and dishonest litigation in various courts. ? The appeals are dismissed with costs, which we quantify as Rs. ? 68. In Maria Margarida Sequeria Fernandes v. Erasmo Jack de Sequeria (supra) the Supreme Court held that heavy costs and prosecution should be ordered in cases of false claims and defences as under:- ? The Court in a recent judgment in Ramrameshwari Devi (supra) aptly observed at page 266 that unless wrongdoers are denied profit from frivolous litigation, it would be difficult to prevent it. ? The petitioners are liable to pay costs which is equivalent to the average market rent of 292 months to the Respondent No. 1 and which comes to Rs. ? Before parting with the case, I consider it necessary to pen down that one of the reasons for over-flowing of court dockets is the frivolous litigation in which the Courts are engaged by the litigants and which is dragged as long as possible. ? It becomes the duty of the Courts to see that such wrong doers are discouraged at every step and even if they succeed in prolonging the litigation due to their money power, ultimately they must suffer the costs of all these years long litigation. ? It is necessary that I strictly apply the ratio of the Supreme Court judgment in the case of Ram Rameshwari Devi (supra)...." ? Dishonest and unnecessary litigations are a huge strain on the judicial system which is asked to spend unnecessary time for such litigation. ? "On hearing Mr. Dhruv Mehta, Senior Advocate appearing for the petitioner, and on going through the judgment of the High Court, we find ourselves in complete agreement with the view taken by the High Court. ? The special leave petition is dismissed." ? (supra), the Supreme Court held that truth should be a guiding star in entire legal process. ? It is a well accepted and settled principle that a Court must discharge its statutory functions-whether discretionary or obligatory-according to law in dispensing justice because it is the duty of a Court not only to do justice but also to ensure that justice is being done. ? Truth should become the ideal to inspire the courts to pursue. ? In United States v. J. Lee Havens, 446 U.S 620, 100 St.Ct 1912, it was held that the government may use illegally obtained evidence to impeach a defendant's fraudulent statements during cross-examination for the purpose of seeking justice, for the purpose of "arriving at the truth, which is a fundamental goal of our legal system". ? 74. If the pleadings do not give sufficient details, they will not raise an issue, and the Court can reject the claim or pass a decree on admission. ? 2. Every litigant is expected to state truth before the law court whether it is pleadings, affidavits or evidence. ? 86. A self-serving denial by the defendant and more so in these types of cases, cannot hold back the Court from exercising its jurisdiction to decree a suit under Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure. ? Raising a plea of non-receipt of notice to quit and seeking an issue on it is obviously to drag on the litigation and keep on holding to the suit property without having to pay the current market rentals, is not sufficient to raise an issue and liable to be rejected. ? The Court cannot remain a silent spectator and allow the abuse of process of law. ? Even if the notice of termination is held to be invalid, service of summons of the suit for possession can be taken as notice under Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act read with Order VII Rule 7 of the Code of Civil Procedure but in that event the landlord would be entitled to mesne profits after the expiry of 15 days from the date of the receipt of summons and not from the date of notice of termination. ? 99. Truth should be the guiding star in the entire judicial process and it must be the endeavour of the court to ascertain the truth in every matter. ? The Court can also invoke Section 30 of the Code of Civil Procedure to ascertain the truth. ? 100. Unless the Courts ensure that wrongdoers are denied profit or undue benefit from the frivolous litigation, it would be difficult to control frivolous and uncalled for litigations. ? It becomes the duty of the Courts to see that such wrong doers are discouraged at every step and even if they succeed in prolonging the litigation, ultimately they must suffer the costs. ? The cost should be equal to the benefits derived by the litigants, and the harm and deprivation suffered by the rightful person so as to check the frivolous litigations and prevent the people from reaping a rich harvest of illegal acts through Court. ? In the written statement before the learned Trial Court, the appellant has admitted the registered lease deed dated 7 November, 2006 between the parties, which expired on 6 November, 2008. ? Self serving denial by the defendant and more so in this type of case, cannot hold back the Court from exercising its jurisdiction to decree the suit under Order XII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure. ? 104. Even assuming that the notice of termination was not served upon the appellant, though there is legal presumption of since as held above, the tenancy stood terminated on the filing of the suit in terms of the judgments of the Supreme Court in Nopany Investments (P) Ltd. v. Santokh Singh (HUF) (supra) and of this Court in Jeevan Diesels & Electricals Ltd. v. Jasbir Singh Chadha (HUF) (supra), Rabinder Nath Saha v. Sushma Jain (supra) and Shri Radhakrishan Temple Trust Maithan, Agra v. Hindco Rotatron Pvt. Ltd., (supra) . ? 106. The appellant's plea disputing the title of the respondent is barred by Section 116 of the Indian Evidence Act. ? 107. The appellant's lease also stands forfeited under Section 111(g)(2) of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 on account of renunciation of his character by setting up a title in a third person. ? The appellant has taken the suit property from the respondent alone and the notice of termination by the respondent is legal and valid. ? Vide order dated 18 March, 2003, this Court in Suit No. 941/2002 has restrained the respondent from letting out of the suit property to a new tenant after the appellant vacates the same but there is no restraint on the respondent receiving back the possession. ? The Managing Director on oath admitted that the appellant took the suit property on lease for a period of two years from the respondent and the lease was renewed for a period of two years in 2004 and again in 2006. ? The appellant has no right to stay in the suit property and the decree of possession has been rightly passed by the Trial Court. ? 113. the case warrants imposition of costs on the appellant in terms of the judgments of the Supreme Court in Ramrameshwari Devi v. Nirmala Devi (supra) and Maria Margarida Sequeria Fernandes v. Erasmo Jack de Sequeria (supra) and of this Court in Punjab National Bank v. Virender Prakash (supra) and Padmawati v. Harijan Sewak Sangh (supra). ? The appellant failed in its statutory obligation and continued the possession, whereupon the respondent sent a notice of termination to the appellant on 20 June, 2009. ? The Trial Court passed the decree against the appellant on 17 August, 2010 but still the appellant was not ready to surrender and filed this appeal raising frivolous grounds. ? 115. It is the duty of the Courts to see that such wrong doers are discouraged at every step and even if they succeed in prolonging the litigation, ultimately they must suffer the costs of all these years long litigation. ? The appellant has no respect for truth and has made false statements on oath. ? The appellant has shamelessly resorted to falsehood and has attempted to pollute the pure fountain of justice with tainted hands and the appellant is not entitled to any relief. ? The appeal is dismissed with costs of R