The respondents moved an application under Section 340 CrPC requesting the court to file a criminal complaint against Appellant 1 as the Will set up by him was forged. ? The complaint was dismissed by the order dated 2-5-1998. ? The revision petition was allowed and the matter was remanded to the Court of Metropolitan ? The appellants challenged the order passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge by filing a petition under Section 482 CrPC before the Delhi High Court, but the same was dismissed on 15-9-2000 following the law laid down in Sachida Nand Singh. ? One possible interpretation is that when an offence described in Section 463 or punishable under Section 471, Section 475 or Section 476 IPC is alleged to have been committed in respect of a document which is subsequently produced or given in evidence in a proceeding in any court, a complaint by the court would be necessary. ? On the interpretation if the offence as described in the section is committed prior to production or giving in evidence of the document in court, no complaint by court would be necessary and a private complaint would be maintainable. ? Any offence committed with respect to a document at a time prior to its production or giving in evidence in court cannot, strictly speaking, be said to be an offence affecting the administration of justice. ? As the purity of the proceedings of the court is directly sullied by the crime, the court is considered to be the only party entitled to consider the desirability of complaining against the guilty party. ? (ii) The offences about which the court alone is clothed with the right to complain may be appropriately considered to be only those offences committed by a party to a proceeding in that court, the commission of which has a reasonably close nexus with the proceeding in that court so that it can without embarking upon a completely independent and fresh inquiry, satisfactorily consider by reference principally to its records the expediency of prosecuting the delinquent party. ? It appears to be more appropriate to adopt the strict construction of confirming the prohibition contained in Section 195(1)(c) only to those cases in which the offences specified therein were committed by a party to the proceeding in character as such party. ? The appellants moved the High Court for quashing of the proceedings on the ground that in absence of a complaint by the court, the prosecution was barred under Section 195(1)(b)(ii) CrPC. ? Section 467 IPC as well and the Magistrate was competent to take cognizance on the complaint. ? The Court reversed the view taken by the High Court observing that as Section 463 defines the offence of forgery and Section 467 punishes forgery of a particular category, Section 195(1)(b)(ii) CrPC would be attracted and in the absence of a complaint by the court the prosecution would not be maintainable. ? If the provisions of clause (c) are extended to witnesses, the extension would be in conformity with the broad principle which forms the basis of Section 195." ? Before filing of the complaint, the court may hold a preliminary enquiry and record a finding to the effect that it is expedient in the interests of justice that enquiry should be made into any of the offences referred to in Section 195(1)(b). ? Section 343(2) confers a discretion upon a court trying the complaint to adjourn the hearing of the case if it is brought to its notice that an appeal is pending against the decision arrived at in the judicial proceeding out of which the matter has arisen. ? In order that a victim of a crime of forgery, namely, the person aggrieved is able to exercise his right conferred by law to initiate prosecution of the offender, it is necessary to place a restrictive interpretation on clause (b)(ii). ? The provision only creates a bar against taking cognizance of an offence in certain specified situations except upon complaint by court. ? The principle that a penal statute should be strictly construed, as projected by the learned counsel for the appellants can have no application . ? Section 195(1)(b)(ii) CrPC would be attracted only when the offences enumerated in the said provision have been committed with respect to a document after it has been produced or given in evidence in a proceeding in any court i.e during the time when the document was in custodia legis. ? The bar created by Section 195(1)(b)(ii) CrPC would not come into play and there is no embargo on the power of the court to take cognizance of the offence on the basis of the complaint filed by the respondents. ? 35. The appeal is dismissed. ? 37. The High Court in the impugned order dismissed the petition filed by the appellant under Section 482 CrPC relying upon the decision of this Court in Sachida Nand Singh.