The Court in the proceedings held that the sale deed executed by the respondent in favour of the appellant on 30-9-1987 is held to be invalid and inoperative. ? The first defendant firm applied to the State Government for exemption, under Section 20(1) of the said Act, and sought permission to hold excess vacant land to an extent admeasuring 16,194 sq m. ? The entire extent of vacant land in excess of ceiling limits admeasuring a total aggregate extent of 19,638 sq m was exempted, by the State Government, under Section 20(1) of the said Act. ? The first defendant firm obtained permission from the State Government under Orders dated 6-3-1987 and 18-4-1987 to sell to the plaintiffs the excess vacant land admeasuring 19,638 sq m, as set out in Paras 3 and 4 hereinafter. ? The High Court has set aside the order of the trial court which allowed the amendment under Order 6 Rule 17 CPC. Being aggrieved by the impugned judgment, the appellant has preferred this appeal. ? The appellant submitted that the Court should be liberal in allowing amendments and the respondents be compensated by costs. ? It was submitted that the appellant cannot seek any amendment of the plaint relying on the circumstances as to the earlier decision having been overruled by seeking amendment of the plaint. ? 21. The respondents relied on the decision of this Court in Usha Balashaheb Swami v. Kiran Appaso Swami 2007 5 SCC 602 wherein the Court has held that by way of amendment, admission made in pleadings and particularly in the plaint cannot be sought to be omitted or got rid of. ? The Court further observed that a prayer for amendment of the plaint stands on a different footing. ? Addition of a new ground of defence or substituting or altering a defence or taking inconsistent pleas in the written statement would not be objectionable while adding, altering or substituting a new cause of action in the plaint may be objectionable. ? The High Court in revision affirmed the judgment of the trial court and held that by means of amendment the defendant wanted to introduce an entirely different case and if such amendments were permitted it would prejudice the other side. ? The High Court rightly rejected the application for amendment and agreed with the trial court." ? 26. In the same judgment of Usha Balashaheb Swami, the Court dealt with a number of judgments of this Court and laid down that the prayer for amendment of the plaint and a prayer for amendment of the written statement stand on different footings. ? All rules of court are nothing but provisions intended to secure the proper administration of justice, and it is essential that they should be made to serve and be subordinate to that purpose, so that full powers of amendment must be enjoyed and should always be liberally exercised, but no power has been given to enable one distinct cause of action to be substituted for another, nor to change, by means of amendment, the subject-matter of the suit." ? All civil courts ordinarily have a long list of cases the courts are compelled to grant long dates which causes delay in disposal of the cases. ? For allowing amendment, it is not just costs, but the delays caused thereby, benefit of such delays and the additional costs which had to be incurred by the victim of the amendment. ? The High Court upheld the order and dismissed the appeal. ? Though the Court noticed "considerable force" in the objection, keeping in view the prayer in the amendment which was not "foreign to the scope of the suit" and all necessary facts were on record, it allowed the amendment. ? A then filed a substantive suit against B and C. In the plaint, except saying that he had obtained a decree against B, nothing more was stated by A. he filed an application for amendment which was rejected by the trial court but allowed by the High Court. ? Dismissing the appeal and confirming the order of the High Court, this Court observed that the discretionary power of amendment was not exercised by the High Court on wrong principles. ? When the matter reached this Court, while affirming the order of the High Court, the majority stated: (AIR p. 18, para 14) ? The decisions holding that amendments could not ordinarily be allowed beyond the period of limitation and the limited exceptions to that rule have no application. ? Reversing the order of the High Court, this Court (per Shah, J., as he then was) made the following oft-quoted observations: (SCC p. 871, para 5) ? Setting aside the order of the High Court, this Court stated: (SCC p. 399, para 22) ? The power to allow the amendment is wide and can be exercised at any stage of the proceedings in the interests of justice on the basis of guidelines laid down by various High Courts and [the Supreme Court]. ? The courts have very wide discretion in the matter of amendment of pleadings but court's powers must be exercised judiciously and with great care. ? The imposition of costs is an important judicial exercise particularly when the courts deal with the cases of amendment. ? (iii) The financial benefit derived by one party at the cost of other party should be properly calculated in terms of money and the costs be awarded . ? We can conclude our discussion by observing that while deciding applications for amendments the courts must not refuse bona fide, legitimate, honest and necessary amendments and should never permit mala fide, worthless and/or dishonest amendments. ? The appeal being devoid of any merit is dismissed with costs.