? It can be done by making necessary endorsement in the same document or by creating another document . ? So the execution of the second document is also in the form of reordering or rearranging or redrafting or even varying the transaction covered by the first document in favour of the defacto complainant, which also can be done by creating or executing a different document . ? (b) (i) of any offence punishable under any of the following Sections of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), namely Sections 193 to 196 (both inclusive), 199, 200, 205 to 211 (both inclusive) and 228, when such offence is alleged to have been committed in, or in relation to, any proceeding in any Court, or ? except on the complaint in writing of that Court or by such officer of the Court as that Court may authorise in writing in this behalf, or of some other Court to which that Court is subordinate. ? 21.? In the context of A1 to A3 filing the suit and obtaining interim injunction basing upon the alleged forged sale deed in question, it is necessary to deliberate whether the production of the document in the civil suit for the purpose of recording relevant evidence or recording the evidence would debar the complainant from filing the corresponding charge sheet or when once it was filed, it would render the charge sheet not maintainable in view of the provisions encompassed in clause (1)(b)(ii) of Section 195 Cr.P.C. ? The sub-section puts the condition that before the court makes a complaint of "any offence referred to in clause (b) of Section 195(1)" the Court has to follow the procedure laid down in Section 340 Cr.P.C. ? No complaint can be made by a court regarding any offence falling within the ambit of Section 195(1)(b) Cr.P.C. without first adopting those procedural requirements. ? There is no dispute before us that if forgery has been committed while the document was in the custody of a Court, then prosecution can be launched only with a complaint made by that court. ? There is also no dispute that if forgery was committed with a document which has not been produced in a court then the prosecution would lie at the instance of any person. ? 'The offences about which the court alone, to the exclusion of the aggrieved private parties, is clothed with the right to complain may be appropriately considered to be only those offences committed by a party to a proceeding in that court, the commission of which has a reasonably close nexus with the proceedings in that court so that it can, without embarking upon a completely independent and fresh inquiry, satisfactorily consider by reference principally to its records the expediency of prosecuting the delinquent party. ? It appears to us to be more appropriate to adopt the strict construction of confining the prohibition contained in S. 195(1)(c) only to those cases in which the offences specified therein were committed by a party to the proceeding in the character as such party." ? The question of filing relevant charge sheet would not arise at all by consequence of which, no court has to take cognizance of the charge sheet filed without adequate material to constitute a particular offence or particular offences. ? Any argument that the factors, which relate to the question of ownership of a property should be tried before a Civil Court only is nothing but misconception. ? Suppose there is a question as to whether an accused trespassed into a property, the ownership or legal possession of which is in dispute without determining that factor or those factors while conducting the investigation of the case collecting relevant documentary evidence, the question of prosecuting the accused is to be ruled out. ? " in view of the above, the law on the issue stands crystallized to the effect that the findings of fact recorded by the Civil Court do not have any bearing so far as the criminal case is concerned and vice-versa. ? 27.? the Supreme Court comprehensively held that the findings of fact recorded by a Civil Court would not have any bearing so far as the criminal case is concerned and vice-versa where standard of proof is different and there is neither any statutory nor any legal principle that the findings recorded by the Court either in civil or criminal proceedings shall be binding between the same parties while dealing with the same subject matter where both the cases are to be decided on the basis of evidence adduced therein subject to the exceptions noted. ? 28.? for the foregoing reasons, there are no merits in the arguments advanced by the learned Counsel for A1 to A3 and the petition is liable to be dismissed.